Rosa HCP Entra ID external authentication (#612)
rh-mobb/documentation: content/rosa/entra-external-auth/index.md

When prompted, follow the prompt to enable the necessary Microsoft Graph permissions.

![Azure Portal - Add Optional Claims - Graph Permissions Prompt](./images/azure-portal_add-optional-claims-graph-permissions-prompt.png)

In order to allow effective management of permissions in OpenShift, we will configure Microsoft Entra ID to provide a `groups` claim when a user logs in. To do so, add a groups claim, make sure to select the "Groups assigned to the application" option.

![Azure Portal - Add Optional Claims - Graph Permissions Prompt](./images/azure-portal_add-optional-claims-group.png)

Currently customers using Microsoft Entra ID for external authentication must set `--claim-mapping-username-claim` to `email` and `--claim-mapping-groups-claim` to `groups`.

![Azure Portal - Add Optional Claims - Graph Permissions Prompt](./images/azure-portal_add-optional-claims-token-config.png)

From the above example, these are variables we will use next.

| <b>Flag    | Description<b>  | 
| :--------- | :---------------------------|
| `--cluster` | cluster-name | 
| `--name` | Application name from Step 1 in "Register a new application in Microsoft Entra ID"

> | `--issuer-url` | https://login.microsoftonline.com/<tenant-id>/v2.0 |  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `--issuer-url` | https://login.microsoftonline.com/${TENANT_ID}/v2.0 |  
```

By using break glass credentials, cluster administrators can securely set up and manage role-based access control (RBAC) for their ROSA with HCP clusters, ensuring proper authentication and authorization mechanisms are in place before regular users access the cluster. During initial setup, Break glass credentials are crucial for applying the ClusterRoleBinding that maps external identity provider groups to cluster roles

Create a new break glass credential by executing the following command:

```bash
rosa create break-glass-credential -c ${ROSA_CLUSTER_NAME} --username=breakglass
```

Your output will look something like this:

```bash
I: Successfully created a break glass credential for cluster 'cluster-name'.
I: To retrieve only the kubeconfig for this credential use: 'rosa describe break-glass-credential abcdefg123456789 -c cluster-name --kubeconfig'
```

> Save the kubeconfig file that will allow you to log into the cluster with the breakglass credentials just created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Save the kubeconfig file that will allow you to log into the cluster with the break glass credential created.
```

```bash
rosa describe break-glass-credential <BREAK_GLASS_CREDENTIAL_ID> -c ${ROSA_CLUSTER_NAME} --kubeconfig > rosa-cluster.kubeconfig
```

> Validate that rosa-cluster.kubeconfig is populated. Your file should look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Validate that the `rosa-cluster.kubeconfig` is populated. Your file should look like this:
```

Here we will be leveraging a client-go Credential Plugin to automate the interaction between the OpenShift CLI and the External Authentication Provider including the management of OIDC tokens.

More information related to Kubernetes plugins can be found [here](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/extend-kubectl/kubectl-plugins/).

Once the plugin has been configured and is available, create a KUBECONFIG file here with EntraID details for example create **rosa-auth.kubeconfig** file with following information

```bash
apiVersion: v1
clusters:
- cluster:
    server: ${API_URL}
  name: cluster
contexts:
- context:
    cluster: cluster
    namespace: default
    user: oidc
  name: admin
current-context: admin
kind: Config
preferences: {}
users:
- name: oidc
  user:
    exec:
      apiVersion: client.authentication.k8s.io/v1
      args:
      - oidc-login
      - get-token
      - --oidc-issuer-url=https://login.microsoftonline.com/${TENANT_ID}/v2.0
      - --oidc-client-id=${CLIENT_ID}
      - --oidc-client-secret=${CLIENT_SECRET}
      - --oidc-extra-scope=email
      - --oidc-extra-scope=openid
      command: kubectl
      env: null
      interactiveMode: Never
```

> Set the KUBECONFIG environment variable to the location of the rosa-cluster.kubeconfig file which will enable the OpenShift CLI to authenticate against the ROSA cluster with the contents of the file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set the `KUBECONFIG` environment variable to the location of the `rosa-cluster.kubeconfig` file. This will configure the OpenShift CLI to authenticate against the ROSA cluster with the OIDC client.
```

> To confirm that the identity details from the OIDC token is being used by the OpenShift CLI:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```bash
export KUBECONFIG=$(pwd)/rosa-auth.kubeconfig
```

> Confirm access to cluster with elevated priviledges

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Confirm your access to the cluster by running the following command:
```

```bash
oc get nodes
```
example output:

```bash
NAME                         STATUS   ROLES    AGE     VERSION
ip-10-0-0-170.ec2.internal   Ready    worker   3h29m   v1.30.7
ip-10-0-1-171.ec2.internal   Ready    worker   3h30m   v1.30.7
ip-10-0-2-161.ec2.internal   Ready    worker   3h29m   v1.30.7
```

> To verify logged in as user of group run

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To verify you are logged in as user of the group, run the following command:
```

```bash
oc auth whoami
```
### Validate access to the cluster's API using device-code authentication 

> Note: Using device-code authentication is when you are authenticating from somewhere that doesn't have a web browser. The --token-cache-storage=disk parameter is used when a client machine lacks keyring. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: Using device-code authentication is when you are authenticating from somewhere that doesn't have a web browser. The `--token-cache-storage=disk` parameter is necessary when the command is run from a machine that does not have a keyring.
```

> Click on the "Authentication" on your Entra ID and Enable Public flows in Advanced section of the page

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click on the "Authentication" blade in the Microsoft Entra ID app registration and Enable Public flows in the Advanced section of the page.
```

![Azure Portal - Enable Public flows Authentication Page](./images/azure-portal-allow-public-flows.png)

> Create a **rosa-auth-headless.kubeconfig** file containing Entra ID authentication details and cluster API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a `rosa-auth-headless.kubeconfig` file containing your Microsoft Entra ID authentication details and the cluster's API server.
```

```bash
apiVersion: v1
clusters:
- cluster:
    server: ${API_URL}
  name: cluster
contexts:
- context:
    cluster: cluster
    namespace: default
    user: oidc
  name: admin
current-context: admin
kind: Config
preferences: {}
users:
- name: oidc
  user:
    exec:
      apiVersion: client.authentication.k8s.io/v1
      args:
      - oidc-login
      - get-token
      - --oidc-issuer-url=https://login.microsoftonline.com/${TENANT_ID}/v2.0
      - --oidc-client-id=${CLIENT_ID}
      - --oidc-client-secret=${CLIENT_SECRET}
      - --oidc-extra-scope=email
      - --oidc-extra-scope=openid
      - --grant-type=device-code
      - --skip-open-browser
      - --token-cache-storage=disk
      command: kubectl
      env: null
      interactiveMode: Never
```

> Set the `KUBECONFIG` environment variable to the location of the `rosa-cluster.kubeconfig` file which will enable the OpenShift CLI to authenticate against the ROSA cluster with the contents of the file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set the `KUBECONFIG` environment variable to the location of the `rosa-cluster.kubeconfig` file. This will configure the OpenShift CLI to authenticate against the ROSA cluster with the OIDC client.
```

> To confirm that the identity details from the OIDC token is being used by the OpenShift CLI:
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```bash
export KUBECONFIG=$(pwd)/rosa-auth-headless.kubeconfig
```

> Confirm access to cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Confirm your access to the cluster by running the following command:
```

```bash
oc get nodes
```
example output:

```bash
Please enter the following code when asked in your browser: XXXXXXX
Please visit the following URL in your browser: https://microsoft.com/devicelogin

ATTRIBUTE   VALUE
Username    xxxxxx@redhat.com
Groups      [000000000000000000 system:authenticated]
NAME                         STATUS   ROLES    AGE     VERSION
ip-10-0-0-170.ec2.internal   Ready    worker   3h29m   v1.30.7
ip-10-0-1-171.ec2.internal   Ready    worker   3h30m   v1.30.7
ip-10-0-2-161.ec2.internal   Ready    worker   3h29m   v1.30.7
```

> To verify logged in as user of group run

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To verify you are logged in as user of the group, run the following command:
```

```bash
oc auth whoami
```
```bash
Please enter the following code when asked in your browser: XXXXXX
Please visit the following URL in your browser: https://microsoft.com/devicelogin
ATTRIBUTE   VALUE
Username    XXXXXXX@redhat.com
Groups      [0000000000000000 system:authenticated]
```

### Revoke break glass credential

> Revoking break-glass credentials in OpenShift is crucial for security and compliance. These credentials are typically highly privileged, providing full administrative access to the cluster. Upon setting up external authentication with cluster administrator credentials, the break-glass credential should be revoked. Refer to [documentation](https://docs.openshift.com/rosa/rosa_hcp/rosa-hcp-sts-creating-a-cluster-ext-auth.html?utm_source=chatgpt.com#rosa-hcp-sts-revoking-a-break-glass-cred-cli_rosa-hcp-sts-creating-a-cluster-ext-auth) on revoking break-glass credential 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Break glass credentials are highly privileged, providing full administrative access to the cluster. Once you've completed the setup of your external authentication provider, you should revoke the break glass credential. Refer to [the ROSA documentation](https://docs.openshift.com/rosa/rosa_hcp/rosa-hcp-sts-creating-a-cluster-ext-auth.html?utm_source=chatgpt.com#rosa-hcp-sts-revoking-a-break-glass-cred-cli_rosa-hcp-sts-creating-a-cluster-ext-auth) on how to revoke a break glass credential.
```

From the above example, these are variables we will use next.

| <b>Flag    | Description<b>  | 
| :--------- | :---------------------------|
| `--cluster` | cluster-name | 
| `--name` | Application name from Step 1 in "Register a new application in Microsoft Entra ID"
| `--issuer-url` | https://login.microsoftonline.com/<tenant-id>/v2.0 |  
| `--issuer-audiences` | Application ID from Step 1 in "Register a new application in Microsoft Entra ID" | 
| `--claim-mapping-username-claim` | email | 
| `--claim-mapping-groups-claim` | groups | 
| `--console-client-id` | Application ID from Step 1 in "Register a new application in Microsoft Entra ID" | 
| `--console-client-secret` | Client Secret Value ID from Step 1 in "Register a new application in Microsoft Entra ID" |

### Prepare Environment Variables

```bash
IDP_NAME=<entra-application-name>
CLIENT_ID=<entra-application-id>
CLIENT_SECRET=<entra-client_secret_value>
TENANT_ID=<entra-tenant_id>
ROSA_CLUSTER_NAME=<cluster-name>
API_URL=$(rosa describe cluster --cluster ${ROSA_CLUSTER_NAME} -o json | jq -r '.api.url')

> 

Reviewer: Missing a closing ``` here.

> ### Create the ROSA External Auth Provider

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Create an external authentication provider in ROSA 
```

```bash
rosa create external-auth-provider --cluster=${ROSA_CLUSTER_NAME} --name=${IDP_NAME} --issuer-url=https://login.microsoftonline.com/${TENANT_ID}/v2.0 --issuer-audiences=${CLIENT_ID} --claim-mapping-username-claim=email --claim-mapping-groups-claim=groups  --console-client-id=${CLIENT_ID} --console-client-secret=${CLIENT_SECRET}
```
Once the External Authentication Provider has been created, it will take several minutes for the provider to become active on the ROSA cluster.

### Verify the external authentication configuration
To verify your external authentication provider, run the following command:

```bash

> rosa describe external-auth-provider -c ${ROSA_CLUSTER_NAME} --name ${IDP_NAME}

Reviewer: Missing a closing ``` here.

### Creating a break glass credential to access the ROSA cluster

One of the key differences between a cluster which has external authentication enabled and a cluster that doesn't is that there is no internal OAuth server to act as a separate identity provider. This means that there cannot be a standalone or pre-created cluster-admin account.  Instead, a temporary kubeconfig with cluster-admin privileges, which we refer to as a break glass credential, can be generated and used to access the ROSA cluster. Credentials are only valid for a maximum of 24 hours and are intended only to provide temporary elevated permissions into the cluster.

By using break glass credentials, cluster administrators can securely set up and manage role-based access control (RBAC) for their ROSA with HCP clusters, ensuring proper authentication and authorization mechanisms are in place before regular users access the cluster. During initial setup, Break glass credentials are crucial for applying the ClusterRoleBinding that maps external identity provider groups to cluster roles

Create a new break glass credential by executing the following command:

> . 

Reviewer: Errant `.`?

```bash
rosa create break-glass-credential -c ${ROSA_CLUSTER_NAME} --username=breakglass
```

Your output will look something like this:

```bash
I: Successfully created a break glass credential for cluster 'cluster-name'.
I: To retrieve only the kubeconfig for this credential use: 'rosa describe break-glass-credential abcdefg123456789 -c cluster-name --kubeconfig'
```

Save the kubeconfig file that will allow you to log into the cluster with the breakglass credentials just created.

```bash
rosa describe break-glass-credential <BREAK_GLASS_CREDENTIAL_ID> -c ${ROSA_CLUSTER_NAME} --kubeconfig > rosa-cluster.kubeconfig
```
Validate that rosa-cluster.kubeconfig is populated

> Your file should look like this:

Reviewer: Combine these two lines.

```
apiVersion: v1
clusters:
- cluster:
    server: ${API_URL}
  name: cluster
contexts:
- context:
    cluster: cluster
    namespace: default
    user: 555555555555555
  name: admin
current-context: admin
kind: Config
preferences: {}
users:
- name: 555555555555555
  user:
    client-certificate-data: 
    yyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyy
    client-key-data: 
    XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
```

> Set the KUBECONFIG environment variable to the location of the rosa-cluster.kubeconfig file which will enable the OpenShift Command Line Interface to authenticate against the ROSA cluster with the contents of the file.. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set the `KUBECONFIG` environment variable to the location of the `rosa-cluster.kubeconfig` file which will enable the OpenShift Command Line Interface to authenticate against the ROSA cluster with the contents of the file.. 
```

> export KUBECONFIG=$(pwd)/rosa-cluster.kubeconfig

Reviewer: Missing a code block

operator-lifecycle-manager-catalog         4.15.43   True        False         False      117m
operator-lifecycle-manager-packageserver   4.15.43   True        False         False      117m
service-ca                                 4.15.43   True        False         False      110m
storage                                    4.15.43   True        False         False      111m
```

### Grant cluster-admin permissions to individual groups
By default, OpenShift does not grant permissions to take any action inside of your cluster when a user first logs in. ROSA includes a significant number of preconfigured roles, including the `cluster-admin` role that grants full access and control over the cluster. The cluster does not automatically create `RoleBindings` and `ClusterRoleBindings` for the groups that are included in your access token; you are responsible for creating those bindings by using your own processes.

In this example, we will grant a group access to the `cluster-admin` role by creating a ClusterRoleBinding to the group ID.

To retrieve the Azure Entra Group ID, search for Entra Group ID and copy the Object ID.

> ![Azure Portal - Get Group ID](./images/azure-portal_groups_id.png)

Reviewer: This is an active group and the screenshot should be of a dummy group. Please replace.

      - --oidc-issuer-url=https://login.microsoftonline.com/${TENANT_ID}/v2.0
      - --oidc-client-id=${CLIENT_ID}
      - --oidc-client-secret=${CLIENT_SECRET}
      - --oidc-extra-scope=email
      - --oidc-extra-scope=openid
      command: kubectl
      env: null
      interactiveMode: Never
```
Set the KUBECONFIG environment variable to the location of the rosa-cluster.kubeconfig file which will enable the OpenShift Command Line Interface to authenticate against the ROSA cluster with the contents of the file.. 

To confirm that the identity details from the OIDC token is being used by the OpenShift Command Line Interface:

```bash
export KUBECONFIG=$(pwd)/rosa-auth.kubeconfig
```

Confirm access to cluster with elevated priviledges

```bash
oc get nodes
```
example output:

```bash
NAME                         STATUS   ROLES    AGE     VERSION
ip-10-0-0-170.ec2.internal   Ready    worker   3h29m   v1.30.7
ip-10-0-1-171.ec2.internal   Ready    worker   3h30m   v1.30.7
ip-10-0-2-161.ec2.internal   Ready    worker   3h29m   v1.30.7
```
To verify logged in as user of group run

```bash
oc auth whoami
```
### Validate access to the cluster's API using device-code authentication 

> Note: This option is only used when the client machine lacks keyring. 

Reviewer: This is inaccurate. Using device-code authentication is when you are authenticating from somewhere that doesn't have a web browser. The `--token-cache-storage=disk` parameter is used when a client machine lacks a keyring.

Click on the "Authentication" on your Entra ID and Enable Public flows in Advanced section of the page

![Azure Portal - Enable Public flows Authentication Page](./images/azure-portal-allow-public-flows.png)

> Create a KUBECONFIG file here with EntraID details for example create **rosa-auth-headless.kubeconfig** file with following information

Reviewer: This sentence needs to be rewritten.

```bash
apiVersion: v1
clusters:
- cluster:
    server: ${API_URL}
  name: cluster
contexts:
- context:
    cluster: cluster
    namespace: default
    user: oidc
  name: admin
current-context: admin
kind: Config
preferences: {}
users:
- name: oidc
  user:
    exec:
      apiVersion: client.authentication.k8s.io/v1
      args:
      - oidc-login
      - get-token
      - --oidc-issuer-url=https://login.microsoftonline.com/${TENANT_ID}/v2.0
      - --oidc-client-id=${CLIENT_ID}
      - --oidc-client-secret=${CLIENT_SECRET}
      - --oidc-extra-scope=email
      - --oidc-extra-scope=openid
      - --grant-type=device-code
      - --skip-open-browser
      - --token-cache-storage=disk
      command: kubectl
      env: null
      interactiveMode: Never
```

> Set the KUBECONFIG environment variable to the location of the rosa-cluster.kubeconfig file which will enable the OpenShift CLI to authenticate against the ROSA cluster with the contents of the file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set the `KUBECONFIG` environment variable to the location of the `rosa-cluster.kubeconfig` file which will enable the OpenShift CLI to authenticate against the ROSA cluster with the contents of the file.
```

ip-10-0-2-161.ec2.internal   Ready    worker   3h29m   v1.30.7
```
To verify logged in as user of group run

```bash
oc auth whoami
```
```bash
Please enter the following code when asked in your browser: XXXXXX
Please visit the following URL in your browser: https://microsoft.com/devicelogin
ATTRIBUTE   VALUE
Username    XXXXXXX@redhat.com
Groups      [0000000000000000 system:authenticated]
```

### Revoke break glass credential
Upon completion of any activities that require elevated access to the ROSA cluster (such as the management of RBAC policies) using a break glass credential, all remnants of its use should be removed. Proper removal ensures that no unexpected actions are performed using these privileged credentials. 
There are two locations where the management of this credential should be performed:
ROSA Cluster
kubeconfig file

Delete the kubeconfig file
rm $KUBECONFIG

A break glass credential can be removed from a ROSA cluster using the `rosa revoke break-glass-credentials` command. Execute the following command to revoke the break glass credential associated with a ROSA cluster.

```bash
rosa revoke break-glass-credentials -c ${ROSA_CLUSTER_NAME}

> ```

Reviewer: Instead of writing this here, explain the importance of revoking a break glass credential and point them to the OpenShift documentation on how to do so.
